src/js/templates/portals/editor/MarkdownExample.md, before:

Replace this example with your content. Styling using markdown is supported.

# Level 1 Header

Markdown is a simple way to format text.

## Level 2 Header

For example, _this text will be italic_ and **this text will be bold**. Here is a link to [DataOne](https://www.dataone.org), and here is an equation written using the TeX language: $$ y =X\beta + \epsilon $$.

Add an image like so: ![DataOne logo](https://www.dataone.org/uploads/dataone-logo-color.png)

Show in-line code using `single backticks`, or show it as a separate block using triple backticks:

```r
my_string <- "Check out the code I wrote"
print(my_string)
```

Here is how to make a table:
| Tables | Are | Cool |
| ------ | --- | ----- |
| x | a | $1600 |
| y | b | $12 |
| z | c | $1600 |

The following is an unordered list:

- List item a
- List item b
- List item c
  - You can create nested lists by indenting list items by four spaces.
  - Sub-item 2

This is a numbered list:

1. First
2. Second
3. Third

To quote some text, just start a line with a `>` character. In the words of Grace Hopper:

> information is more valuable than the hardware which processes it.

You can even add emojis :smile:!

### More help with markdown

- [Markdown reference](https://commonmark.org/help/)
- [Ten minute tutorial](https://commonmark.org/help/tutorial/)
- For a longer example where you can also preview the results, checkout the [Showdown Live Editor](http://demo.showdownjs.com/)

Commit message:

Allow collapsible sections in markdown editor
Include a UI button to insert collapsible sections in the markdown editor, and an example in the default markdown example template.

Issue #2685

src/js/templates/portals/editor/MarkdownExample.md, after:

Replace this example with your content. Styling using markdown is supported.

# Level 1 Header

Markdown is a simple way to format text.

## Level 2 Header

For example, _this text will be italic_ and **this text will be bold**. Here is a link to [DataOne](https://www.dataone.org), and here is an equation written using the TeX language: $$ y =X\beta + \epsilon $$.

Add an image like so: ![DataOne logo](https://www.dataone.org/uploads/dataone-logo-color.png)

Show in-line code using `single backticks`, or show it as a separate block using triple backticks:

```r
my_string <- "Check out the code I wrote"
print(my_string)
```

Here is how to make a table:
| Tables | Are | Cool  |
| ------ | --- | ----- |
| x      | a   | $1600 |
| y      | b   | $12   |
| z      | c   | $1600 |

The following is an unordered list:

- List item a
- List item b
- List item c
  - You can create nested lists by indenting list items by four spaces.
  - Sub-item 2

This is a numbered list:

1. First
2. Second
3. Third

To quote some text, just start a line with a `>` character. In the words of Grace Hopper:

> information is more valuable than the hardware which processes it.

You can even add emojis :smile:!

Add a collapsible section like so:

<details>
<summary>Click to expand</summary>

This content will be hidden until the user clicks.

- You can include Markdown formatting inside
- Lists, **bold**, etc.

</details>

### More help with markdown

- [Markdown reference](https://commonmark.org/help/)
- [Ten minute tutorial](https://commonmark.org/help/tutorial/)
- For a longer example where you can also preview the results, checkout the [Showdown Live Editor](http://demo.showdownjs.com/)
