---
layout: metacatui_exports
outputs: json
html:
  "nav" : navbar
  "footer" : footer
dependencies:
  - button
  - logo
  - icon
  - svg
  - contact-info
  - join-form
  - pill
js:
  filename: d1website
  assets:
    - helpers
css:
  filename: css/d1website
  assets:
    - variables
    - fonts
    - functions
    - mixins-and-placeholders
    - responsive-font-size
    - utility
    - root
fonts:
  weights:
  - "300"
  - "regular"
  - "500"
  - "600"
  - "700"
  - "900"
  types:
  - "woff"
  - "woff2"
  faces:
  - "martel-v4-latin"
  - "work-sans-v5-latin"
static_files:
  # "favicon-16x16.png" : favicon.png"
---

### Version: 2020-07-20 15:34:38.335618 -0400 EDT m=+2.493628707

# Exports from the DataONE website for the MetacatUI DataONE theme

In order to maintain consistency between the DataONE website and the MetacatUI DataONE theme,
we export certain components from the website for use in MetacatUI.

## Building content for MetacatUI from the website source files

All of the source files for the website are available in [a GitHub repository](https://github.com/dataoneORG/dataone-web).
The website uses the static site generator, [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/), to convert the content and template files contained in the repository into HTML, CSS, javascript, and other resources.
To build the website, download the repository, [install Hugo](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/installing/) and use the [`hugo`](https://gohugo.io/commands/hugo/) CLI command to build the website. 
You will most likely want to use the command with the following flags:

```
hugo -d $DESTINATION_DIRECTORY --minify --cleanDestinationDir
```

Hugo will output the files you need for metacatUI in a sub-directory within `$DESTINATION_DIRECTORY` called `metacatUI_exports`.
(All of the other files & directories that were created in `$DESTINATION_DIRECTORY` can be discarded.)

## Updating DataONE theme files in MetacatUI

All the files required to update the MetacatUI DataONE theme are contained in the `metacatUI_exports` directory generated by the Hugo build.
Copy the contents of this directory to the `src/js/themes/dataone/components/d1website` directory in MetacatUI.
The DataONE theme is already configured to grab templates, the css bundle, and javascript bundle from this directory.
For example, the `src/js/themes/dataone/config.js` file sets the path to the navbar template to `src/js/themes/dataone/components/d1website/navbar.html`.
The `src/js/themes/dataone/templates/appHead.html` template has a `<link>` pointing to the stylesheet in the `d1website` directory, and a `<script>` that brings in the javascript bundle from the same directory.

Whenever these files are updated, the MetacatUI theme should be previewed to ensure that changes integrate well.
There is the potential for conflicting CSS rules.
Some rules are already set to make the two themes compatible in the `src/js/themes/dataone/css/metacatui.css` file.
To help avoid conflicts, exported CSS classes are prefixed with `d1-`.

## Changing the exports from Hugo

On the Hugo site, there are two files required to generate the `metacatui_exports`:
  - **a layout file**: `themes/dataone/layouts/_default/metacatui_exports.json`, and
  - **a content file**: `themes/dataone/content/metacatui_exports.md`

The layout file generates [resources](https://gohugo.io/content-management/page-resources/) based on what's listed in the content file.
It also builds a JSON document that summarizes the list of exports.
(Although we don't need this JSON output in MetacatUI, the layout file *must* build some document that includes links to the resources, otherwise Hugo won't create the resources at all.)

The front matter of the content file acts as the configuration; it indicates the list of items that are required for metacatUI.
This is where you can easily configure which files Hugo should export.
The markdown in the content file generates this README.

### Definitions of the front-matter variables in the `metacatui_exports.md` content file

- **layout:** Should be set to `metacatui_exports`. It gives the basename of the layout file to use in the `layouts/_default` directory.
- **outputs:** Should be set to `json`. It gives the filetype of the layout file to use in the `layouts/_default` directory.
- **html:** Indicates which HTML blocks from the `themes/dataone/layouts/partials/blocks` to export as HTML files (templates) for MetacatUI. Listed as `key:value` pairs, where the key is the name of the block layout in Hugo, and the value is the desired name of the HTML output file without an extension, e.g. ` "block name" : output-file-name `. CSS and JS contained in the same directory as the block will be exported as part of the JS/CSS bundle files.
- **dependencies:** Indicates which other blocks the above `html` blocks use as sub-blocks. For instance, the `nav` block uses the `logo` block as a partial. The CSS & JS for these "dependency" blocks will be included in the exported CSS & JS bundles.
- **cssBundle:** 
  - **outputName:** The base file name to use for the exported CSS bundle (export will be: `outputName.min.css`)
  - **assets:** The list of assets from the `themes/dataone/assets/scss` directory to include in the exported CSS bundle. Note that the order matters here in how the CSS rules are implemented. (Assets are included in the bundle  *in addition* to the CSS exported for html blocks and the dependencies blocks.)
- **jsBundle:** 
  - **outputName:** The base file name to use for the exported JS bundle (export will be: `outputName.min.js`)
  - **assets:** The list of assets from the `themes/dataone/assets/js` directory to include in the exported CSS bundle. (Assets are included in the bundle *in addition* to the JS exported for html blocks and the dependencies blocks.)
- **fonts:** Fonts to export for metacatui. Assumes fonts are in the `themes/dataone/static/fonts` directory and follow the naming format `fontface-weight.type`. Exports fonts with the same naming format. For other naming formats, use the `static_files` variable, below.
  - **weights:** The list of font weights to export
  - **types:** The list of font types (file extensions) to export
  - **faces:** The name of the font family to export, exactly as it is named in the `themes/dataone/static/fonts` directory.
- **static_files** List of other files in the `themes/dataone/static` directory to export, listed as `key:value` pairs where the key is the name of the file in Hugo, and the value is the desired name of the output file, e.g. ` "images/staticFile.jpg" : "output-static-file.jpg" `. Note this only works for [files under 1MiB in size](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/blob/215d2ed883d5adbde1d119d33e2f2e88c8435f41/tpl/os/os.go#L73).
