docs/index.md, before:

MetacatUI is a web interface for Metacat data repositories.

![Data Search Page](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NCEAS/metacatui/master/docs/screenshots/screenshot-search.png)

[See more screenshots](screenshots/index.html)

## Documentation

### Installation

There are three separate installation instructions, depending on your use case:

- [Installing MetacatUI for your Metacat repository](install)
- [Installing MetacatUI locally for development with a Metacat repository](install/local.html)
- [Installing MetacatUI locally to use with a remote DataONE Coordinating Node](install/use-with-cn.html)

### Customizing MetacatUI
- [How to create a custom theme](install/configuration/index.html)
- [Examples of how to customize MetacatUI](guides/index.html)

### For developers
- [MetacatUI Javascript documentation for developers](/metacatui/docs/index.html)

#### Want to contribute to MetacatUI?
  - Join us on [Slack](https://slack.dataone.org/)
  - Email us at metacat-dev@ecoinformatics.org
  - [Create a MetacatUI Github issue](https://github.com/NCEAS/metacatui/issues/new/choose)
  - Read our [Contributing guidelines](https://github.com/NCEAS/metacatui/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

Commit message:

New Docs build Add link to latest release in docs index page

docs/index.md, after:

# MetacatUI is a web interface for Metacat data repositories.

![Data Search Page](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NCEAS/metacatui/master/docs/screenshots/screenshot-search.png)

[See more screenshots](screenshots/index.html)

## Latest release
Download the latest release on Github: [MetacatUI 2.13.0](https://github.com/NCEAS/metacatui/releases/tag/2.13.0)

## Documentation

### Installation

There are three separate installation instructions, depending on your use case:

- [Installing MetacatUI for your Metacat repository](install)
- [Installing MetacatUI locally for development with a Metacat repository](install/local.html)
- [Installing MetacatUI locally to use with a remote DataONE Coordinating Node](install/use-with-cn.html)

### Customizing MetacatUI
- [How to create a custom theme](install/configuration/index.html)
- [Examples of how to customize MetacatUI](guides/index.html)

### For developers
- [MetacatUI Javascript documentation for developers](/metacatui/docs/index.html)

#### Want to contribute to MetacatUI?
  - Join us on [Slack](https://slack.dataone.org/)
  - Email us at metacat-dev@ecoinformatics.org
  - [Create a MetacatUI Github issue](https://github.com/NCEAS/metacatui/issues/new/choose)
  - Read our [Contributing guidelines](https://github.com/NCEAS/metacatui/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
